DATABASES
Chinook
MySQL SQL Exercises

SELECT * THE * IS USED TO RETRIEVE ALL COLUMNS FROM A TABLE.
OTHERWISE, LIST THE NAMES OF THHE COLUMNS YOU NEED

1. How many songs are there in the playlist “Grunge”?
JOIN from two tables, you code the names of the two table in the FROM clause
along with the JOIN Keyword and ON on Phrase that specifies the join condition.
In most case, they're compared based on the relationship between the primary key of the first
table and foreign key of the second table.

2. Show information about artists whose name includes the text “Jack” and about artists whose name
includes the text “John”, but not the text “Martin”.
Use LIKE Operator to search for a specified pattern in a column
LIKE Operator with % or _
USE THE AND AND OR OPERATORS = COMPOUND CONDITION

3. For each country where some invoice has been issued, show the total invoice monetary amount, but
only for countries where at least $100 have been invoiced. Sort the information from higher to lower
monetary amount.

4. Get the phone number of the boss of those employees who have given support to clients who have
bought some song composed by “Miles Davis” in “MPEG Audio File” format.
REPORT TO EMPLOYEE ID ? CAN'T GET THE VALUE OF THE BOSS

5. Show the information, without repeated records, of all albums that feature songs of the “Bossa Nova”
genre whose title starts by the word “Samba”.
P91

6. For each genre, show the average length of its songs in minutes (without indicating seconds). Use the
headers “Genre” and “Minutes”, and include only genres that have any song longer than half an hour.


7. How many client companies have no state?
????
8. For each employee with clients in the “USA”, “Canada” and “Mexico” show the number of clients from
these countries s/he has given support, only when this number is higher than 6. Sort the query by
number of clients. Regarding the employee, show his/her first name and surname separated by a
space. Use “Employee” and “Clients” as headers.


9. For each client from the “USA”, show his/her surname and name (concatenated and separated by a
comma) and their fax number. If they do not have a fax number, show the text “S/he has no fax”. Sort
by surname and first name.


10. For each employee, show his/her first name, last name, and their age at the time they were hired.